My theory is that when you do that and you carb restrict and you, you,
you calorie restrict rather and get down, eat once that over.
You just want to reward yourself as often as possible.
So when someone comes along with something like a ketogenic diet and go,
no bread, no pop, you. You just, you just don't want to do it.
You get, um, but you get the same, uh,
the adherence and the relapse is the same,
whether it's ketogenic or another diet like regaining weight. Yeah. But is it.
Correct?
That fixation like pasta and bread because there's no,
no foods actually create. Yeah.
Yeah. They have great stuff. Their waffles are excellent. They have like a.
Hamburger buns.
Now. Yeah. It's good stuff. I really like,
I've made sandwiches with their stuff. Um,
what knocks me out more than anything of ketosis is just too much meat. Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah. That's the one that gets me.
Uh, again, I, I kind of go back to
that. The data is very mixed. Again, if we look at the overall data set,
very mixed and all diets have terrible adherence. Right. But a lot.
Of that that's discipline.
Yeah. But we also, now we've got.
It makes me crazy. I don't want to talk about people. Aren't disciplined.
I really, really, I really have a giant hard problem with that.
As I know so many discipline people and I just,
I feel their momentum and vibration and I'm like,
I just want to concentrate on what they're doing.
Cause all these people that can't do it, I feel like that's contagious.
You started thinking about people that can adhere to diets and fall off.
I get it for you because it's something that you do. But.
But I'm gonna, I'm gonna make a, so for you,
the ketogenic diet cliques and, or,
or eating more meat clicks that that's something that you really enjoy.
You like the state you like to stay.
I love pasta. It makes.
Discipline.
Easier because of regulation.
Data doesn't support that.
It doesn't support that it makes discipline easier in terms of your adherence or
in terms of your long-term adherence, both, both.
So, but, but hang on, hang on. For some people,
for some people this works better because they feel better.
They have better adherence for other people. If you say,
now you've got some people. If you say, Hey, you can have a cookie, they would,
it would screw them because they would, they would just go crazy.
But for other people, if you allow them more flexibility,
their adherence improves.
What I'm saying is we need to give people all the options on the table,
not demonize any one diet and say, Hey,
maybe you try to figure out what works for lack of sounding, bro,
what works for you and what you can sustain. Go from there.
Let's see if this.
Is totally integrated.
I am as well. But you keep saying Ken sustain,
you definitely can sustain more than you do that.
The real problem is a giant percentage of the people are weak. Oh,
I would agree with that. Like it's in the 30, 40% people just quit. Give up.
Don't do what they're supposed to do.
Don't do as many reps as it's supposed to do. Don't work out,
take days off just because they're lazy.
And those are the people that get off the diet. It's a discipline issue.
More than anything.
That is really big.
So I think various foods that are emerging on the market right now at based
systems,
Virta health actually has a great app based system that actually coaches you
through that. Uh, and I think that's very helpful. So I think new technologies,
foods, and we'll make it will increase adherence.
Also when you have a person who knows and understands all the health benefits
associated with nutritional ketosis or just low carb,
I think that can be a motivating factor to make them stick to the diet.
Yeah, but for a guy like you, who's rational and disciplined,
but people they're self-destructive and weak, they're going to
need a burger and need fries and need to shake.
Their choice. What's the point.
Of the whole conversation then? Well,
the point of the conversation to avoid those,
cause they're going to drag you down to their mediocre level. I think.
I think you need to sympathize with them a little bit because I think the
market, and I think this is a fruitful area for entrepreneurs to create
technologies and foods that can actually enhance adherence to
eating strategies. We know about that too. So it's a combination.
I feel like so much of it is what you're willing to accept from yourself.
If you're,
if you are willing to accept this Seesaw obesity thing that
so many people get on, on and off this yo-yo effect.
If you're willing to accept that, that's fine.
But I just feel like it's a mental state. I really do.
I see once you achieve a certain amount of success,
people start sabotaging themselves. They start,
they start dwelling on the fact that they're doing well,
but how long can they sustain this? It starts being a big fat mind.
And that's when you say like what's sustainable,
what's sustainable a lot more than you're willing to do. What's sustainable is
the person out there that's listening. But you know what I mean? It's like,
there's a thing like we're giving people these escape clauses.
We're giving them these, these, these parachutes. They can pull,
don't pull the parachute. Just have a cheat day. That's fine.
But don't get off your diet, have a cheat meal, eat a giant sundae,
throw some syrup on that. Get that whipped cream going, do it once.
But don't live your life like that. That's nonsense. And I think.
For, yeah, I wouldn't disagree with anything you said.
So people need to hear not this like this. Like, well you can't sustain it.
The keto giant, giant not sustained you to stay.
All with their control. If you do fast, sustainable, if you fast for three days,
that will give you a lot of confidence that you have control over food. Fasting.
No diet is sustainable. It's not sustainable over.
If you look for general population and you get a bunch of weak and you get them
together, how many of them are going to keep it together?
How many of them are going to run every day?
How many are going to work out every day? Very, very, very few.
You're dealing with outliers particular just by virtue of what you do,
how many people are willing to put the work in to achieve this.
Now how many, how many people can achieve this physique? Very, very few, right?
So we're.
Talking about outliers.
We're talking about how that's what I like. I like outliers.
I don't like people to use to hook. I can't hear that. I'm not,
that's dangerous. So I feel like that is worse than carbs.
That's why we talk a lot in the book about behaviors.
Because if you change your behavior, that's what we,
I think there's not enough research focused on is let's look at the people who
actually achieve weight loss.
And if you look at people who achieve it and keep it off,
they do it through many different methods, whether it's low carb, low, fat,
whatever it is. But let's look at the behaviors that they make.
And those behaviors can tell us a lot about people.
One thing we know is they practice form. They, they weigh themselves very often.
So they're accountable. They, they practice some form of cognitive restraint,
whether it's weighing food, recording, macros, ketogenic, fat restriction,
whatever it is. And also they exercise regularly.
And one there's physiological benefits to that exercise lowers the body fat set
point that your body will defend. So it actually has a physiological benefit,
but also just mentally, like you said, I mean, I never,
if you took me back 30 years ago and you told me, Hey Lee,
or when I was 10 years old and you said, Hey,
when I was like bullied and picked on, had no self-esteem,
you're going to squat,
668 pounds one day on your back at 201 pounds
and set a it's been broken since then. But a world record. I would've been like,
there's no way. There's no way. But when you have discipline, like you said,
and you that doesn't just people say you should have more confidence.
That's a horse advice.
The confidence is built through you set a goal and you achieve,
you set a goal and you achieve, and you don't start out to say,
I'm going to set a world record. And that's your first goal, right? You use,
I like, what will Smith say? Say you lay a brick as perfectly as you can lay it,
you do it again. And you do it again and you do it again.
And you talk to anybody who's successful in anything.
They didn't start out saying I'm going to do this earth shattering thing. Right?
They started out and built that confidence over years and years of
achieving small goals, which then led them to their big goals.
Now we're onto something because I think that the mental state,
in which you approach anything, a workout routine, a lifestyle,
the way you decide to live your life, that is critical.
And here's one of the things that people are cynical about.
That's probably one of the best sources of fuel is inspiration.
From other motivated people go to David Goggins, Instagram page every day.
Watch that Savage. Watch what he does. And yeah, he's awesome.
But go to people like him, Cameron Hanes go to go to go to people like the rock.
Like these people just do it. There's no escape. There's no.
And sustain that. That's not, I don't want to hear that. That's nonsense.
And failing is good. It's okay. If you fail, if you don't fail,
you're not going to get anywhere. Get back on the horse.
You're not pushing yourself hard enough.
When I say sustainability. I mean, if, if it's,
if it's because everybody has stuff that they find again,
you find a carb restricted diet to be easier to stick to for you feels better.
It feels better for you. And that's fine. But if,
but if somebody is over here and says, you know what, I'm eating a low fat diet.
I feel great. My blood markers are good. I have plenty of energy.
What's wrong with that? Nothing's wrong with that. Exactly.
That's why libertarian unquestionably exists, right? There's a,
there's a giant difference between all this.
Some people eat peanuts and they die. Right. We all know that. There's just the,
body's just very, very different. They vary exactly.
They're the caloric requirements. The, the nutritional requirements. It that's,
what's hard about this, right.
Is finding this one thing that is best for you and
objectively and you know, and being really analyzing your,
your actual physical performance, which very people, very few people do.
They kind of say, well, I feel pretty good, but by what marker, right?
Or you w what's your personal best? What are you trying to accomplish?
Are you monitoring your heart rate? Are you monitoring your work output? Like,
what are you doing to show that this diet is optimal for you?
Yeah. Well, and part of that is like, you know, it's hard to get,
that's a lot of money that's going to be spent to, to get that data, you know,
for an individual. So part of it is going to have to be,
what do you feel good on? And what do you feel like is again,
most sustainable for you? Because no matter what that people want to diet,
what people really want is they want,
I don't want to have to track and I don't want to have to sacrifice anything.
And I want to get to my goal. Well, tough. That's not going to happen.
You have to pick what you're going to sacrifice. Right.
So if you say I hate tracking calories,
so I'm just not going to eat carbs because I can regulate my body weight that
way. Yeah. Do that.
I had a post on Twitter that was like one of my most popular Twitter posts.
I said, you know,
health improvements are largely driven by caloric restriction and weight loss.
But if, if you like vegan, if you like keto, if you like carnivores,
if you and I just listed a bunch of different diets and they help you create a
restriction and it keeps you at a healthy weight, then. Yeah.
Hell yeah. Like if somebody says, I like eating a vegan diet.
Interested in losing weight, but ketogenic intermittent fasting is very,
very easy for me. I love the food and I feel better. And uh,
I think all my biomarkers are improving. Can I ask you this.
When you don't need any other reasoning for why you should do it? Yeah.
With him, it works now. Can I ask you this?
When you say diets aren't sustainable, the data doesn't show that. Well,
you're talking about calorie restricted diets, that overall weight loss diets,
are you talking about dietary choices in terms of like ketogenic diets.
Question. So it's that if you lose weight,
we cannot keep it off. That is,
that is the big problem is that most people are able to lose weight and they
cannot keep it off because one that the self-defense system that we talked about
is a really easy way too quickly.
Their body gets into this state where it's always trying to regain.
That weight back part of it, part of it. Yeah. Like losing it more quickly,
there's debate about this. But I would say that it's,
you have to create a more extreme deficit to do that.
And so you are activating your body's self-defense system more intensely.
If I had to say it that way. So the rebound is usually bigger as well.
So it's, it's trying to find a way, okay, can we get this weight off?
And then let's really emphasize to people that the
diet after the diet, nobody talks about this, except for us in the book,
nobody talks about this. Uh, my co-writer for the book,
Peter Baker and I,
we spent were spent chapters talking about when you go and transition into,
okay, we've lost the weight we want to lose. We're healthier.
You have to have the same amount of discipline and intensity to then maintain
that loss. Because if you let up, if you let your foot off the gas,
now you don't necessarily have to be at the same caloric restriction level.
But if you just let yourself come out, I'm going to vacation. I'm going to eat,
I'm going to eat what I want. Boom, gained 10 pounds.
And everybody knows people like this, who they go and they do this.
And you've just,
you've literally just undid months of hard work in one
week because.
Would maintain that for a set amount of time, say six months.
So I think that if someone can maintain that weight loss for six months,
that's like, sort of like the tipping point where they can go on.
Got my wheelhouse right here. Okay. Ah, so, so that's a great point.
So leptin is a, you I'm sure you've heard of people talking about leptin.
So when you lose fat leptin,
subscript secretion goes down cause fat cells secrete it. And uh,
it's kind of like your body's thermostat and body fat.
Everybody has like a set point. Their body likes to be at.
So if you lose body fat, you secrete less left than hunger goes up.
Metabolic rate goes down, grilling tries to yes.
And growling is in opposition to leptin. So you, you,
this is your body like a thermostat. So if on a thermostat,
if you set it at 75 goes too low, kick the heat on bump back up, goes too high.
Kick the cooling on, go back down,
left and acts that way with your metabolic rate and your hunger.
When you get down to a low body fat leptin's low your body,
you have a drive to regain that weight. Your, your hunger is higher. Your bot,
your, your metabolic rate is lower.
Leptin still stays low even years after a diet and people who
have, uh, kept the weight off.
So you would think there'd still be a biological drive to regain the weight
that said, and I'm going to go out on a limb here.
So any of my scientists who are listening on this feel free to call me out in
the carpet. If you think I'm wrong, but just like obese people,
obese people actually have high levels of leptin.
They have high levels of leptin, but they become leptin resistant,
but then insensitive, right? If you stay at a re,
there is evidence that if you stay to reduce body weight for one or two years,
that that can become your new set point, that your body defense,
I think what can happen is even if your leptin doesn't go out for two years,
not six months. Yeah. It's a little bit longer. It's a little bit longer,
but it's a good start aneurysm what's happening. I think, I think, well,
I think it's probably multifaceted because nothing, your body's so redundant,
usually nothing is ever one thing. Typically just in our set point,
I think one of the things that happens is probably your body becomes more
sensitive to the leptin you have because you're leaving.